Looking at how region affects costs is the easiest way to cut costs off the bat.
Currently, AWS has 22 regions and 69 availability zones serving 245 countries.
In addition, there are 210 published points of presence consisting of
a 199 edge locations and 11 regional edge caches.
By the time you're watching this video,
there will be more,
as AWS is rapidly expanding his footprint across the globe.
Points of presence are used by
AWS CloudFront to deliver content to end users with lower latency.
An AWS region is a physical location where Amazon has clustered data centers.
Each cluster of data centers is referred to as an Availability Zone or AZ.
AZs are designed to be redundant locations for each other and
provide customers with automatic fault-tolerance and high availability.
AWS local zones are extensions of an AWS region that place compute storage,
database, and other AWS services closer to the end users.
Local zones are designed to run ultra-fast,
highly demanding applications to end users,
such as media and content creation,
real time gaming, and machine learning.
Most AWS costs depend on the region you choose for deployment.
There are several factors at play when it comes to cost
variance in regions such as local regulations,
the cost of doing business,
the price of utilities,
supply and demand, competition, and many more.
The least costly region,
and the region with the most complete suite of
AWS services is US-East-1, or Northern Virginia.
This is also the region where AWS deploys new services first.
This region is preferred by many AWS architects for speed and stability.
On the flip side,
when this region experiences technical issues or an outage,
it affects millions of users and is quite disruptive.
While this is the preferred region,
it may not be practical to exclusively
host your application here if your users are global.
There are steps you can take to reduce your costs while
hosting your applications in more costly regions.
When data transfer costs from EC2 to the public Internet or significant,
consider using AWS CloudFront.
Images, videos, or static web content can be cached at
AWS edge locations worldwide using the Amazon CloudFront content delivery network.
A content delivery network is a network of servers that delivers
web and media content to users based on where they're located.
Providing the content faster and with higher availability.
Architecture solution to avoid inter-regional data transfer costs whenever possible.
For example, accessing the data from Amazon S3
via Amazon EC2 within the same region is free of charge.
Whereas accessing Amazon S3 data from a different region incurs a data transfer cost.
If you have resources in different regions or multiple AWS accounts then using
VPC peering or VPC sharing can help you further optimize and reduce your costs.
You can use a service called AWS transit gateway,
which acts as a hub that controls how
internal traffic is routed among the connected networks,
simplifying management and reducing costs